project 2 requirements

for the quiz app - https://github.com/2105-may24-devops/project2-quiz-app

CI/CD
    two redundant systems so we can fallback in case of cloud outage, and
        so we could evaluate in practice which one fit the project's needs better
        (except they will also be complementary, deploying to different environments)
    pipelines should include static analysis, PR triggers, anything else that
        you've seen would contribute to a good CI/CD workflow.
    two deployment environments
        one branch goes to prod
        another branch goes to dev
    pipeline with azure devops
        separate pipelines for each service
        use templates to share behavior across the pipelines
        deploys to the prod environment.
    pipeline with jenkins
        separate pipelines for each service
        use shared libraries to share behavior across the pipelines
        deploys to the dev environment.
docker
    dockerize the application.
    write compose files so that it can be tested locally without a k8s cluster.
kubernetes
    have both sets of pipelines deploy to an AKS cluster.
    use YAML manifests kept in source control to manage state declaratively.
    make your own AKS cluster for the dev environment.
    use my AKS cluster for the prod environment.
    put thought into the deployment model/strategy and implement something
        appropriate. try to make it easy to rollback or redeploy an older version.
    [optional] define probes to let the cluster know more about the containers' state.
code changes
    evolve the codebase so that it leverages docker/kubernetes
        for more deployment flexibility.
        [optional] we can replace the gateway service with something that fits better.
        we can replace the config service with something that fits better.
        we can replace the duplicate copy of the flashcard service with
            something that fits better.
    for code changes, collaborating directly with other teams is allowed.
        attribute any code originally written by another team.
    allow for database persistence.
        the current implementation is an in-memory database.
    keep separate databases for each service instance, so we can continue to
        use kafka to manage eventual consistency.
advice
    it's up to you how to organize and store the source code.
        you can stick with the monorepo, or move to several repositories.
        you can do github, azure repos, or something else.
    use a project board to track your work.
        it can be something quicker to set up than Azure Boards, like Trello,
        if you want
    you may want to build the requirements gradually one phase at a time.
        the "phase" branches and PRs in the original repository can help with this.
    you can choose how much of the pipeline steps to keep inside the Dockerfile,
        and how much outside.
        advantages of inside: more consistency and less effort between
            azure devops and jenkins.
        disadvantages of inside: the local image builds should be as fast as possible
            for the devs, so you may want separate sets of dockerfiles for CI and
            for dev. also, some things like managing secrets may take extra effort.
